<!-- Var -->

var - function scopped - meaning they are only accessible within the function in
which they are defined or globally if declare outside of any function.

its a hoisting variables, hoisted to the top of their containing function or globally scope.
this mean you can use them before they are declared in the code, although the value will be
undefined.

<!-- Let -->

Let is a block scoped. let are only accessible within the nearest enclosing block where they are defined.
let are also hoisted but not initialized, so referencing them before declar result in Error.

<!-- Const -->

like let its block scoped. variables declared with const must assigned a value when declared.
that value cannot be changed or reassigned.

<!-- Bubble Sort -->

Average Time Complexity: O(n²)
Worst-case Time Complexity: O(n²)
Space Complexity: O(1)
Stability: Stable

<!-- Selection Sort -->

Average Time Complexity: O(n²)
Worst-case Time Complexity: O(n²)
Space Complexity: O(1)
Stability: Unstable

<!-- Inserction Sort -->

Average Time Complexity: O(n²)
Worst-case Time Complexity: O(n²)
Space Complexity: O(1)
Stability: Stable

<!-- Merge Sort -->

Average Time Complexity: O(n log n)
Worst-case Time Complexity: O(n log n)
Space Complexity: O(n)
Stability: Stable

<!-- Quick Sort -->

Average Time Complexity: O(n log n)
Worst-case Time Complexity: O(n²)
Space Complexity: O(log n)
Stability: Unstable

<!-- Heap Sort -->

Average Time Complexity: O(n log n)
Worst-case Time Complexity: O(n log n)
Space Complexity: O(1)
Stability: Unstable

<!-- Prototypal Inheritance -->

in JS, almost everything is an Object. and each object has prototype which serves as a bluepriint for creating new Objects. This means you can create object that inherit property and behavior.

Objects: every object in JS has an associated prototype object.

prototype chain: when you access a property or method on an object, JS first check if it exists on the object itself. if not it looks for object's prototype and it process up the prototype chain untill in finds the property or method.

benefit? code reusablility, dynamic behavior, and efficiency.

<!-- This key word -->

In js 'this' behaves differently depending on the context in which it is used.

Global Context -> global object
Function Context -> method on an object -> object itself
-> standalonse -> global object
Constructor functions -> with new key words -> newly created object
Explict Binding -> call(), apply(), bind() object.
Arrow Function -> do not have it own 'this'
Event Handlers -> target event element

<!-- Closures -->

function defined inside other function which can use its own scope, parent scope and global scope.

<!-- Promise -->

Getting Ice Cream : parents tell you they will get your favorite ice cream.
Waiting: you have to wait for them to go to ice cream shop.
Getting the Ice Cream: after a while, parents come back with Ice cream.
Enjoying: enjoy your ice cream be happy because they did what they promised.
Error Handling: parent cannot find your favorite ice cream. Rejecting the promise.

<!-- Object -->

store key-value pairs. key are unique -string. no built-in methods for iteration.

<!-- Array -->

ordered collection with integer indices.
various build-in method like push pop shift.

<!-- Set -->

store unique value
method for adding, deleting, checking
O(1) avg case for those action

<!-- Map -->

store pair of key-values
maintain orders
provide method for adding, deleteing

<!-- == -->

check for values and convert it to common type

<!-- === -->

check values and types

<!-- block -->

take all availabe width
start new line before and after
can set width/height/margins/padding

<!-- inline -->

take only necessary space of width
no new line
cannot set width/height but can set margin/padding
inline element can be group together

<!-- forEach() -->

itreating over array does not create new Array and used for side effects

<!-- map() -->

itreating over array and creating new array. return new array without modify orginal array.

<!-- questions -->

How many times would “addEventListener('scroll', handleScroll);” run as the user looks at their News Feed? And what would be user experience if the “handleScroll” function takes 100ms to execute? Secondly, how could you implement debouncing? Say you wanted the “handleScroll” function to be called only after 200ms has passed between scroll events?

Using HTML and CSS, show how you would create an image that would display another image (aligned to the bottom, right) when the user hovers over the image. E.g. the Facebook "edit profile picture" icon

How would you ensure that clicking on this picture would go to a specific link?

For a recursive description of DOM elements i.e. var dom = { type:'div', props:{id:'hello', children:[{type:'h1', children:'HELLO'}]}}. Define a function that prepares actual DOM elements.

Explain the difference between null and undefined in JavaScript.

How would you implement a function that removes duplicates from an array in JavaScript?

Explain the difference between synchronous and asynchronous JavaScript.

Can you explain the concept of Big O notation and how it relates to algorithmic complexity?

Can you explain the purpose of the box-sizing CSS property?

How would you implement a CSS grid layout?

Describe the difference between the float and position CSS properties.

Throttle

What is this in JavaScript. Asked about Queue and Stack in web.

what's the data structure of DOM

what's the difference between apply and call.

<!-- second part -->

Implement a function to reverse a linked list.
Given an array of integers, write a function to find the two numbers that add up to a specific target value.
Given two strings, write a function to determine if they are anagrams of each other.
Implement a function to find the kth smallest element in a binary search tree.
Implement a function to check if a binary tree is balanced.
How would you design a social media platform feed?
Design an online shopping cart system.
Can you walk me through your experience working with CSS?
Can you tell me about a time when you had to debug a particularly challenging issue on the Frontend?
How would you architect the Frontend for a messaging system?

<!--  -->

When you are preparing for a Meta Frontend Engineer Interview - we’d recommend keeping these things in mind:

Research about Meta's company culture, values, and goals to align them with your career aspirations. You can check out Meta Life to know more about the company culture.

Make sure you bring up competing solutions and speak to all their major tradeoffs. Demonstrate that you can make good decisions about how to balance the various tradeoffs.

If you only worked with UI libraries before, spend some time learning the raw DOM APIs. If you only used a utility library like Lodash, try to implement some of its methods from scratch.

Check how well your solutions work with large inputs, and think about memory consumption and the edge cases you need to handle.

Go over data structures, algorithms, and complexity. Be able to discuss the Big O complexity of your approaches. Don’t forget to brush up on your data structures like lists, arrays, hash tables, hash maps, stacks, queues, graphs, trees, and heaps. Also sorts, searches, and traversals (BFS, DFS). And review recursion and iterative approaches.

Avoid solutions with lots of edge cases or huge if-else blocks. Deciding between iteration and recursion is always an important step.

The interviewer looks for familiarity and experience, it’s not imperative that you’ve memorized tons of DOM, JavaScript and browser APIs.

Get comfortable with JavaScript. You need to have a clear understanding of variables, functions, objects, arrays, asynchronous control flow, and closures.

Use the SOAR method to mentally organize your thoughts. This will provoke a well thought-out and chronological order of events. Easy to describe, easy to follow.
